Lightning bolts illuminated the clouds under their feet.  The glowing being clasped a silver amulet in his hand, and with the other he gestured sharply towards his enemy.  A hulking, murky creature was perched on top of a low drift just beyond the edge of the cloud.  Its leathery wings were curled against it’s scaly body.  Two powerful legs dug into the cloudscape as it steadily resisted the force of the shockwave.  “Come now, Andromedus, give us the amulet and have done with this futile resistance,” it said.

Andromedus did not answer but instead hefted back his arm, ready to throw, "I would sooner caste it into the forbidden land than allow you to use it to your twisted purpose."

The creature growled and curled his lips into a smirk.  "Why risk banishment for something that doesn't concern you?" he taunted, "Come and leave this business to us."

"You will never understand my reasons, and I will not be banished.  My vessel has already been chosen."  A flurry of fizzling lights flowed from the amulet and began encircling Zoa.  He closed his eyes and breathed slowly.  He didn't open them even as he heard the creature scream in rage and disbelief.  It wasn't close enough to reach him before his task was done, although he heard it launch from it's position towards him.  With all the strength he could must he turned towards a particular edge of the cloudscape, and with the swirling lights beginning to make his own skin burn brighter he hurled the amulet away.

As the amulet soared over the cloud bank and plummeted to the ground far below, Andromedus's body shimmered bright enough the blind the creature - it put it's clawed hands up to shield it's eyes.  When the flash of light passed and it looked again, Andromedus was gone.  Then it roared loud enough to make the clouds quake and the sky groaned with his fury.  He crept to the edge of the drift and peered down where the amulet had gone, and there he sat with his chest heaving and his mind racing.

-------

The knock came briskly on the door.  Not quite hurried, but definitely not someone who wanted to stay.  It wasn't anything new to Fiona.  She coo'd gently to her blue starling and popped him back onto his branch above the kitchen window.  Her knees cracked as she stood up, stretched, and walked slowly over to the door.  She took a quick look around her small home for anything that would be better of hidden from guests and, satisfied, opened the door with a smile.  A hefty, nervous looking fellow twitched his mustache and twisted his cap in his gloved hands.  "Good morning to you, madam.  Are you the Medicine Woman of Middle Wood?"

"Oh no, that's all heresay.  I'm actually a witch," she said raising brightly with a wink.  The man tried to hide a squirm and quickly retrieved a missive from the front of his worn traveling cloak.  "Ahem, um, I have messages to deliver to the Medicine Woman of Middle Wood." he fumbled.  He extended a shaky hand with the carefully folded paper.  "Oh for skies sake, good sir, I jest!  I am only an old woman who knows her way around a pultice.  Come!  Come in and read me your news.  My eyes are tired."

She laughed, opened the door wider and returned to her kitchen.  The messenger seemed hesitant to step over the threshold, peering quickly around the room as if for some hidden trap.  Finally seeming to come to some bold decision, he tromped briskly into Fiona's house.  He allowed himself a safe distance from her, unfolded the paper, and began to proclaim, "Ahem!  To the honorable Medicine Wom-"

"Would you like some tea, young man?" Fiona asked distractedly as she rumbled in the cabinets.  The messenger's voice caught in his throat, "What? Oh!  Ah, no, madam, pardon.  Much thanks, no."

He attempted to continue, "To the honoroable Medicine Woman of Middle Wood, We have heard of your great skill in mending the sick.  You are truly a masterful pra-"

"Ah, this is sounding a bit overdone, hmm?  A noble or someone of consequence, yes?" Her eyes twinkled at the man, but he didn't notice.  He also obviously wasn't used to being interrupted, as he twitched his nose and his startle turned into indignint puzzlement.  Fiona was privately entertained.  "Oh.  Um, mayhap, madam.  Shall I continue to read.."

"Please do, sir!", she said encouraging him with a wave of her hand.  She had the teapot hot and two cups with bags of loose leaves ready by the time he finished the entire message.  It was more of the same.  Someone with coin to burn wanted a healer to come to court - no doubt to be plied with offers to permanently join and operate in some official capacity of the Lord's entourage.  Of course the number of their offers were always extravagent, much more than she'd ever need to live out her days.  And that was just for the journey there to hear them out.  There were so many fine courts nowadays in the southern lands.  And skies burn, they loved their status and prestige.  Most of these letters were regarding situations that absolutely didn't need the work of one such as her.  They were merely efforts to increase a Lord's power.

After the messenger finished and rested the paper, he looked to her for some confirmation.  She absently poured the hot water into the teacups and took the message from his hand.  Then without so much as a flourish she tossed it into the wood stove.  The fire ate it up quietly, without a flicker.

The messenger's brows furrowed, but sprung up as Fiona dropped something cold and gold into his open hand and closed it.  "Are you sure you wouldn't like some tea?  This orange petal shade leaf is most excellent, and comes all the way from the eastern shore."  The messenger regained his poise and politely declined, opening with the second letter.  Fiona brought out some sugar bread and pinched two pieces off.  She handed one to her starling, who readily pecked and ate it.  Then she slowly settled herself into her chair with a content sigh.  Although she didn't hold out much hope for anything interesting to come, she definitely didn't expect what came next.

"Madam healer, my son has secluded himself in his room and is very ill.  He will not come out, and what's more, he will not even look me in the eye.  Or any man or woman.  When brought his meals, he is curled in a ball and warns quite desperately for everyone to get from his sight.  If we attempt to move or touch him, he shuts his eyes tight and lashes out with all his arms and legs coming near to tears, quaking with fear and pleading.  Please help us.  The townsfolk are worried that it is some disease that grips the boy and fear that it may catch to their own kin.  I have little money - just 50 copper pieces - to pay for your aid.  I may yet have even less, as without his help I cannot finish the harvest and get our grain to market as quickly as we usually do together.  I pray to stars and skies above that it is enough for you to come and heal my boy.  Signed, Beor the Shepherd.  Old Castle Glen."

When the messenger finished, he looked up and found Fiona carefully studying the window.  She nursed her cup of tea with a small frown.  Some affliction of the mind, perhaps, the poor lad.  However, something else nagged her about the letter.  Was it something about how it was constructed, written?  The language?  Fiona had long ago learned to heed the whims of her internal voice, buried deep down and normally slow to make itself known.  Right now, it was beginning to wake and the rumblings of curiosity were trickling along her mind, teasing her.

"Well, it may be time again for a journey." She sighed, getting to her feet again with a grunt, "Do you have room on your horse for a hobbled old woman and her fowl?"  She smiled airily and produced another handful of coins that made the messenger's eyes gleam.

Approximately an hour later, a short old woman wrapped in grey wool blanket and hood slung a small travel bag over her back and climbed behind the obviously uncomfortable yet stately courier on his horse.  As the horse broke into a trot down the seldom traveled path to the small home built into the wide trunk of a massive, old, and crooked tree, a small blue Starling swooped from above and settled onto the old woman's shoulder.

--------

The name Old Castle was no mere tribute to some story out of myth.  At various places within, along, and around the town old stone remnants of a once great castle village could be found amonst the thatchwork structures that served as the now much less impressive Old Castle Glen.  Perhaps less impressive if you've come from some great Southern city or from the Eastern Shores with their vistas of floating island paradises.  However, any of the residents of Old Castle Glen would generally only know of the wider world from the few merchants that happen to travel and sell their wares elsewhere.  Those men and women always came back with stories that were readily devoured by the village youth and quietly chuckled at by the elders.

The community still had a lingering culture of excited contentment about it, like a group of merry campers pitching their tent in a cozy looking valley on their first night, eager to have campfires and singing and drink.  Aside from the new thatch buildings, everything else would seem as if it were one large campsite.  The ground was shin-high thin grass with flowers and small bushes throughout.  No paths were dirtworn yet.  The center of the town was a large open area with a good size bonfire in the center for town-wide activities, which happened frequently.  Around a large enough prarie to house the entire village, a perimeter of deep green pine trees lined the south and east.  Men hunted those woods in all seasons.  To the north was a the expansive Silent Lake.  On the westward side were rolling hills where the livestock and crops were tended.  Those hills dropped off gradually into white beaches on the far end at the Western shore.  There the Cairn sea warmed the sand with aggressive tides.  And from here the clouds appeared overhead and traveled across all the kingdom of Penriel.

Those clouds were deep, wide, and so many shades of white, grey, light blues and greys.  They stacked and layered as if swatches of puffy cloth were thrown into the sky.  On some days, the inhabitants of Old Castle Glen could stare up, reverently, and peer through some stairway with six, no seven, no eight steps of cloud beyond cloud.  It was as if the heavens were a majestic court, with skies knows what going about their days just behind the edges of every drift.

Relatively speaking, Old Castle was one of the newest settlements of the north-western provinces.  It was only 2 generations old.  Lord Soulemain Ronforte had several agricultural generators in Bari province and this was one of them.  The farmers and shepherds were the central importance.  Any other tradesmen living at Old Castle, of which there were a few, were in support of this.  During the harvest months, every person in the village played an important role as part of the community to get their crops and livestock to Lord Soulemain's markets.  Soulemain was an exacting master over his people, although generally fair.  As often as a surplus was delivered, so too was some extra reward be it a wagon of traveling performers, funds and traders for a fair, or a good town-wide feast.

Inside the taproom of The Huntsman, a wobbling man struggled to maintain a still posture at one of the small tables.  He thumped his empty cup onto the wood and huffed out a frustrated breath.  "Y'mark it.  Mark it, Ralof!" He slurred, tossing his hands towards the bartender who was chopping potatoes and leeks on the end of the bar next to a large black pot.  There were two others in the taproom, sitting quietly together closer to the lightly popping hearth.  At the man's outburst, they groaned in the familiar way and shook their heads.  "Here we go.  What are we marking tonight, Fol?" the bartender replied without turning from his work.

Fol sniffed haughtily and cleared his throat.  "It's tha'boy, like I told b'fore. It ain't right."

"Fol, would you quit you're soothe saying and just put more ale in that mouth," One of the farmers near the hearth called out.  Fol, twisted quickly in his chair and gripped the table to keep from falling out, "I'll put more'n ale in yours if you don't heed my words!  Boy sick for days, won't help his pa finish the shear.  We might have shot over at counting time, but now we'll be under for sure.  And Soulemain will-"

"Lord Soulemain, you pot swiller!" corrected Ralof, as he scraped the veggies into the big pot.  Fol, for all his vigor, winced in acquiescence and nodded although he continued on without self-correcting, "Eh, right, Ray.  He'll come down on us for sure once we come up short."

"I doubt it.  Our Lord has proven himself to be just but also understanding.  The boy is sick and he will plainly see that we have produced the counts in our fold and only didn't have the mans to do the work of shearing.  Not like we've been negligent in our duties," Ralof explained with confidence as he easily carried the 5 gallon pot filled with potato stew to the hearth and hung it over the grate.

"What about three harvests back?  When the wheat came in low?" Fol asked.

The men were silent.  Indeed, Old Castle had been short on their wheat numbers and Lord Soulemain was so unhappy that he cut off all trade to the town for a month, save for basic essentials like food.  The Miller clan, about 7 of them that worked the wheat, had simply started their planting season too late and half their crop was killed by the first winter frost. They were all but ostracized from the town for their laziness, and it took another 2 straight years of record numbers for the rest of the town to begin thawing towards them again.

The other fellow near the hearth spoke up, his voice much deeper and controlled, "It'll count fine.  A hundred less bags of wool is nothing like half the wheat gone.  His lordship will hardly notice."

Fol pursed his lips which somehow made his ruddy, sun-stretched face look comical.  He seemed pacified for the moment and requested another ale from Ralof.  However, the same voice continued, "What I'd be more worried about is whatever sickness has Beor's son."

The room erupted with groans.  Ralof with fluster and Fol with renewed interest.  "Why'd you have to go and do that, Torig?  You're only encouraging him," Ralof chided from behind the bar, his hands spread on the polished wood.

"But it's true," Torig insisted firmly, "Not getting a set of clowns or tragic caravan show will be the least of our worries if whatever he has starts spreading."

The man across from Torig sat straighter in his chair, "You really think it's serious?  I thought the boy might just be trying to get out of work."

"I should say it is," Torig finished his cup and lithely placed it back onto the table, "Nirdra's eldest girl was tending him some two days past when the boy looked at her and then started screaming and hollering and carrying on.  Damned strange.  And the girl, she comes around confused and unable to give a straight answer as to what happened."

"Oh?" Ralof asked, unable to continue being disinterested, "You think she's lying?"

Torig nodded sagely and indicated his empty cup to Ralof while he continued, "Beor relayed the story - said that the girl told him that the boy was simply frightened or further along with the sickness in his head.  But a day later, Nirdra herself shows up at market gray faced and ashen, inquiring to our healer about sicknesses that can make someone believe they've witnessed some illusion or fantasy.  In the mind.  Now tell me that doesn't sound familiar."

The men in the room were silent.  Even Fol was quiet, gently swaying in his inebriation.  "You think it's spreading then." Ralof said more than asked.

Torig shrugged, "I don't think it coincidence, but I don't know what to make of it.  All's I know is that I'm steering clear of Beor and his son until this is all figured out.  I suggest you all do the same, if you want to be safe."

The next few moments stretched long and still as the men pondered over the ramifications of a town-wide epidemic.  There were barely enough hands to complete the work that needed doing as it were.  Even a small bout of disease would severly impact them.  Ralof came and stirred the pot of soup, served up a few more drinks while Torig and his companion spoke lightly of other matters that were less dire.  Fol even returned to slurring about the uppity nature of the southern city folk, the recently wet weather, and how Lothlien, the local seamstress, appears exceedingly beautiful in all manner of dress and situation.  The tap room burned steady orange light from the hearth and lanterns through to the late hours.

However, some words sink into deep places and harden.  This night, the few men of Old Castle still awake and together were in a forlorn state.  Some dark winds had come to their home and had set whispers in motion.  The people of Old Castle worked hard, but they also kept their heads down and did their duty, hoping against hope that black things won't get blacker.

---------
